INSTITUTIONAL RACISM
Jerrell Davis: We hold these truths to be
self-evident that all men are created equal.
You know, when they say all men, they weren't
talking about all men.
Tariqa Waters: We've been getting shot by
the police since they let us off, out of shackles.
I mean, and then there is that: slavery. I
mean, I don't understand why we're talking
about race and racism like it's something
that just popped up.
Lucas Nydam: Growing up as a white person
in a purely white town, you only hear about
individual racism. Systemic racism is where
I see a lot of people who don't really understand.
A lot of people can try to dismiss it, but
it's hard to dismiss systemic racism because
it's math, it's data. People with white-sounding
names getting higher rates of callbacks on
jobs, you have prison rates, you have housing
discrimination.
Cynthia Tee: The percentage of black people
among those that are incarcerated is really high,
like the data is there, you can't deny
that there is some institutional racism going on there.
Mark Olsen: You know, all these different
statistics, the statistics are great, but
they mean nothing without the context. If
African American kids are more likely -- or
less likely to do as well as white kids, I
think we have to look at what, what causes
that, why, what is their environment, what’s
their family life like, what are the other
things that are affecting that.
Autumn Bennett: In order to say that there
is an actual problem, we have to quantify
it with actual, measured proof. And so this
idea that we have this feeling that this is happening,
I'm sure it's happening somewhere,
probably is happening.
Black people are being arrested on a higher level, I don't agree.
I think they may be committing crimes at a higher rate with a smaller demographic.
I don’t know if that’s right.
Louis Chude-Sokei: I don't care where you're
from, the numbers are staggering, in terms
of the amount of black people getting shot
by police, the incarceration rate.
Even if we admit that “black people are more criminal”
– I'm not saying we should admit that – but
even if we do, the numbers are still out of
control, right. The numbers do not even add
up to greater criminality, statistically.
Keli Carender: Institutional racism implies
that there are different laws for different people,
and there are no longer different
laws. The law's the law and it's now applied equally.
I mean, you know, you would hope.
Rachael DeCruz: There's nothing necessarily
in any of our policing policies that says
you should be targeting people of color. But
the outcome, right, we know that the outcome
is that people of color are more likely to
be stopped, they're more likely to be arrested,
they're more likely to be sentenced, they’re
more likely to have longer sentences.
Greg Rickel: That alone ought to tell us we've
got a problem. So we don't have to have laws
that enact it, or at least direct blatant
laws. We've got a system now that's built
to keep that and to make it go.
M. Lorena González: They're a legacy of what
once were really overt discriminatory acts,
like preventing African Americans or any other
person of any other race from buying property
in a particular part of town. Predatory lending
and access to education and where schools
are built, where grocery stores are built.
Rachael: It's often not like a bunch of evil
people sitting around in a room being like
“We're going to, you know, we're going to
take all we can from this group of people.”
It's often, the policies are written in a
way that doesn't sort of encompass the disparities
that currently exist and so they then further,
further those disparities.
Mark: There have absolutely been examples
of institutionalized racism. Yeah. Goodness,
Nazi Germany, and I think even in American
history we've had institutionalized racism,
150 years ago, and so I'm not saying that
there is no institutionalized racism. It's
that right now I'm not sure that what we are,
what we are saying is institutionalized racism,
I don't know that that's the right, that's
the right phrase for that.
Autumn: I mean like when I was using in the
streets like I got stopped for stuff I didn't
do. But to say that it's this widespread systemic
thing. I just, I don't know. I know I stopped
having trouble with the police, though, when
I quit breaking laws.
Jerrell: I think that most people are speaking
from experience. There has to be some historical,
educational perspective.
Lorena: We live in a country that is founded
on really deep-seated, bad history around race,
from slavery to the Mexican-American
War to the colonization of America and what
that represents for our Native American community.
Every slice of history that you look at in
America has some sort of relation to, to race,
and oppression based on race, and exclusion
based on race.
Louis: People either don't have the historical
context or deliberately do not want to have
the context. But you’ve distanced yourself
from the history of racism, you're able to
not think of it as racism.
Darrell Hillaire: If we don't know our history
then we're bound to be ignorant about how
we treat one another. We need to teach the
kids about slavery in the school system to
say that this is really wrong. So they're
not raised in such a way that, you know, that
all is just kind of like a blind spot.
Greg: It's privilege plus power in a society.
And that can be different from any society,
but in ours it happens to be white.
Jerrell: Racism is prejudice with privilege.
It's structural, it's hereditary. And hereditary,
not like genetically, but you pass on the
values that are rooted in racism to your children,
and that affects how they treat other people.
Darrell: You go through the angry phase, and
you go through the protest phase in your life,
and then you go through this place where you're
just kind of numb, you know, it's like, you
know this is getting worse than better, you
know. But you just have to take it upon yourself
to educate as many people as you can.
JOIN THE CONVERSATION